The Project Gutenberg EBook of Gentlemen of the Jury, by George M. Baker

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: Gentlemen of the Jury
       A Farce

Author: George M. Baker

Release Date: April 15, 2015 [EBook #48707]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK GENTLEMEN OF THE JURY ***




Produced by David Edwards, Donalies and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This
file was produced from images generously made available
by The Internet Archive)





                         Transcriber’s Notes


Italic markup is enclosed within _underscores_.

Bold markup is enclosed within =equal signs=.

Additional notes appear at the end of the file.




                        ALL THE WORLD’S A STAGE.

                                  THE
                                AMATEUR
                                 DRAMA.

                               GENTLEMEN
                              OF THE JURY

                                BOSTON:
                          GEO. M. BAKER & CO.,
                         149 Washington Street.

  Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1873 by GEORGE M.
   BAKER, in the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington.




                       SPENCER’S UNIVERSAL STAGE.

 _A Collection of COMEDIES, DRAMAS, and FARCES, adapted to either Public
     or Private Performance. Containing a full description of all the
                       necessary Stage Business._

             _PRICE, 15 CENTS EACH.    No Plays exchanged._


 1. =Lost in London.= A Drama in Three Acts. 6 Male, 4 Female
    characters.

 2. =Nicholas Flam.= A Comedy in Two Acts. By J. B. Buckstone. 5 Male, 3
    Female characters.

 3. =The Welsh Girl.= A Comedy in One Act. By Mrs. Planche. 3 Male, 2
    Female characters.

 4. =John Wopps.= A Farce in One Act. By W. E. Suter. 4 Male, 2 Female
    characters.

 5. =The Turkish Bath.= A Farce in One Act. By Montague Williams and
    F. C. Burnand. 6 Male, 1 Female character.

 6. =The Two Puddifoots.= A Farce in One Act. By J. M. Morton. 3 Male, 3
    Female characters.

 7. =Old Honesty.= A Comic Drama in Two Acts. By J. M. Morton. 5 Male, 2
    Female characters.

 8. =Two Gentlemen in a Fix.= A Farce in One Act. By W. E. Suter. 2 Male
    characters.

 9. =Smashington Goit.= A Farce in One Act. By T. J. Williams. 5 Male, 3
    Female characters.

 10. =Two Heads Better than One.= A Farce in One Act. By Lenox Horne. 4
    Male, 1 Female character.

 11. =John Dobbs.= A Farce in One Act. By J. M. Morton. 5 Male, 2 Female
    characters.

 12. =The Daughter of the Regiment.= A Drama in Two Acts. By Edward
    Fitzball. 6 Male, 2 Female characters.

 13. =Aunt Charlotte’s Maid.= A Farce in One Act. By J. M. Morton. 3
    Male, 3 Female characters.

 14. =Brother Bill and Me.= A Farce in One Act. By W. E. Suter. 4 Male,
    3 Female characters.

 15. =Done on Both Sides.= A Farce in One Act. By J. M. Morton. 3 Male,
    2 Female characters.

 16. =Dunducketty’s Picnic.= A Farce in One Act. By T. J. Williams. 6
    Male, 3 Female characters.

 17. =I’ve written to Browne.= A Farce in One Act. By T. J. Williams. 4
    Male, 3 Female characters.

 18. =Lending a Hand.= A Farce in One Act. By G. A. A’Becket. 3 Male, 2
    Female characters.

 19. =My Precious Betsy.= A Farce in One Act. By J. M. Morton. 4 Male, 4
    Female characters.

 20. =My Turn Next.= A Farce in One Act. By T. J. Williams. 4 Male, 3
    Female characters.

 21. =Nine Points of the Law.= A Comedy in One Act. By Tom Taylor. 4
    Male, 3 Female characters.

 22. =The Phantom Breakfast.= A Farce in One Act. By Charles Selby. 3
    Male, 2 Female characters.

 23. =Dandelions Dodges.= A Farce in One Act. By T. J. Williams. 4 Male,
    2 Female characters.

 24. =A Slice of Luck.= A Farce in One Act. By J. M. Morton. 4 Male, 2
    Female characters.

 25. =Always Intended.= A Comedy in One Act. By Horace Wigan. 3 Male, 3
    Female characters.

 26. =A Bull in a China Shop.= A Comedy in Two Acts. By Charles
    Matthews. 6 Male, 4 Female characters.

 27. =Another Glass.= A Drama in One Act. By Thomas Morton. 6 Male, 3
    Female characters.

 28. =Bowled Out.= A Farce in One Act. By H. T. Craven. 4 Male, 3 Female
    characters.

 29. =Cousin Tom.= A Commedietta in One Act. By George Roberts. 3 Male,
    2 Female characters.

 30. =Sarah’s Young Man.= A Farce in One Act. By W. E. Suter. 3 Male, 3
    Female characters.

 31. =Hit Him, He has No Friends.= A Farce in One Act. By E. Yates and
    N. H. Harrington. 7 Male, 3 Female characters.

 32. =The Christening.= A Farce in One Act. By J. B. Buckstone. 5 Male,
   6 Female characters.

 33. =A Race for a Widow.= A Farce in One Act. By Thomas J. Williams. 5
    Male, 4 Female characters.

 34. =Your Life’s in Danger.= A Farce in One Act. By J. M. Morton. 3
   Male, 3 Female characters.

 35. =True unto Death.= A Drama in Two Acts. By J. Sheridan Knowles. 6
    Male, 2 Female characters.




                         GENTLEMEN OF THE JURY.

                                A Farce.


                            BY THE AUTHOR OF

                          “Sylvia’s Soldier,”
         “Once on a Time,” “Down by the Sea,” “The Last Loaf,”
 “Bread on the Waters,” “Stand by the Flag,” “The Tempter,” “A Drop too
 Much,” “We’re all Teetotalers,” “A Little more Cider,” “Thirty Minutes
     for Refreshments,” “Wanted, a Male Cook,” “A Sea of Troubles,”
          “Freedom of the Press,” “A Close Shave,” “The Great
            Elixir,” “The Man with the Demijohn,” “Humors of
               the Strike,” “New Brooms sweep Clean,” “My
                Uncle the Captain,” “The Greatest Plague
                   in Life,” “No Cure, no Pay,” “The
                       Grecian Bend,” “War of the
                         Roses,” “Lightheart’s
                              Pilgrimage,”
                                  “The
                               Sculptor’s
                             Triumph,” “Too
                          Late for the Train,”
                       “Snow-Bound,” “The Peddler
                       of Very Nice,” “Bonbons,”
                  “Capuletta,” “An Original Idea,” “My
                Brother’s Keeper,” “Among the Breakers,”
             “The Boston Dip,” “The Duchess of Dublin,” “A
         Tender Attachment,” “Gentlemen of the Jury,” “A Public
      Benefactor,” “The Thief of Time,” “The Hypochondriac,” “The
    Runaways,” “Coals of Fire,” “The Red Chignon,” “Using the Weed,”
         “A Love of a Bonnet,” “A Precious Pickle,” “The Revolt
                    of the Bees,” “The Seven Ages,”
                             &c., &c., &c.


                                BOSTON:
                         GEORGE M. BAKER & CO.,
                         149 WASHINGTON STREET.




       Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1873 by
                            GEORGE M. BAKER,
       in the Office of the Librarian of Congress at Washington.


                _Rand, Avery, & Frye, Printers, Boston._




                         GENTLEMEN OF THE JURY.

                                A FARCE.

                       FOR MALE CHARACTERS ONLY.


                              CHARACTERS.

PELEG PRECISE, Foreman. JOB TIMOROUS, JACOB DOUBTFUL, ABEL STRONGFIST,
  JARVIS JOLLY, SOLOMON SNOWBALL, DENNIS O’ROURKE, NATHAN SHORT, ENOS
  PAUNCH, BRAZEN BLOWER, PETER PUNSTER, SIMEON SLOW, Jurors.


SCENE.——_A Jury Room. Table_, C., _with paper, pens, ink, &c. Twelve
        chairs around stage._

_Enter from_ R. _all the characters, in the order in which their names
  are written, single file, across Stage, and face Audience. Door at_
  R. _is slammed and locked_.

_Timorous._ Good gracious! we’re locked in! (_Rushes across stage to_
R.) Here, officer! officer!

_Slow_ (_at extreme_ R., _catching_ TIMOROUS _by arm, and swinging him
round_). Stop that. It’s all right, you know.

_Timorous._ No, I don’t. I’m afraid of fire——

_Punster_ (_swinging him round to next man_). _What er_ that?

_Timorous._ And subject to fits——

_Blower_ (_ditto_). You’re no _fit_ juror.

_Timorous._ I must have air——

_Paunch_ (_ditto_). Where _air_ you, now?

_Timorous._ Or smother——

_Short_ (_ditto_). Take him to his mother.

_Timorous._ What do you call this treatment?

_O’Rourke_ (_ditto_). The movement cure, bedad.

_Timorous._ It’s outrageous——

_Snowball_ (_ditto_). Da’s a fac’, da’s a fac’, honey.

_Timorous._ Diabolical——

_Jolly_ (_ditto_). Ha, ha! now you go ag’in.

_Timorous._ Infamous!

_Strongfist_ (_ditto_). Move on, stupid.

_Timorous._ I won’t stand it.

_Doubtful_ (_pushes him into chair_). Then sit down.

_Precise_ (_at table_). Gentlemen, be seated. (_All sit._) Before we
discuss the case with which we have been intrusted, perhaps we had
better take a vote.

_Short._ My idea exactly.

_O’Rourke._ Begorra, let’s take something cowld.

_Precise._ We have been instructed to bring a verdict, “Guilty or not
guilty.” Please write your verdict. Here are slips of paper. (_Passes
them round. All write, some on the table, some on chairs_; SNOWBALL
_writes his against the wall_.)

_O’Rourke_ (_approaches_ SNOWBALL). Whist! I say, d’ye write Guilty wid
a G or a J?

_Snowball._ Ob course not. Write him wid a pencil——so.

_O’Rourke._ O, be jabbers! It’s yerself’s a heathen——you ignoramus.

_Precise._ Now, gentlemen, if you are ready. (_Collects votes, spreads
them on table, and assorts._)

_Timorous._ I want a glass of water——I’m faint.

_Strongfist._ Shut up. Don’t disturb the meeting.

_O’Rourke._ Bedad, it’s a glass eye ye’ll be wantin’ if yer do.

_Punster._ His eye waters at the thought.

_Precise._ Gentlemen, the vote stands, six “Guilty,” six “Not guilty.”

_Jolly._ Hallo, a clean cut!

_Short._ Six mules in the crowd, certain.

_O’Rourke._ A majority on both sides, d’ye mind.

_Snowball._ Major who? Major who? Dar ain’t no sogers here, hey, I ax
you?

_Precise._ Well, gentlemen, there’s work before us; and, that we may
know each other, I propose that those who voted “guilty” take seats on
the right, those who voted “not guilty,” on the left.

_Short._ Good. I’m for the right.

_Jolly._ I feel decidedly _guilty_.

_Slow._ And so do I.

_Strongfist._ Right face. March!

_O’Rourke._ Begorra, captain, I’ll train in that company. (_They all
pass to_ R. _as they speak_. DOUBTFUL, TIMOROUS, SNOWBALL, PAUNCH,
PUNSTER, _and_ BLOWER _pass to_ L.)

_Punster._ Though on the left, we’re in the right.

_Paunch._ Well, look here, I’m getting hungry. Ain’t we going to have
our dinner?

_Blower._ You’re always thinking of eating.

_Snowball._ By golly, da’s a fac’. Dat ar Mr. Punch hab an appetite
like an earthquake.

_Paunch._ Bah! what do you know about it? Well, wake me up when you’re
through. (_Tips his chair back against wall, throws his handkerchief
over his face, and falls asleep._)

_Snowball._ Dar, de old man gwine for Morphine.

_Precise._ My vote was “Guilty,” and of course I belong with the party
on the right.

_O’Rourke._ Thrue for yez, honey; and ye’ll find it the party that’s
always right, jist.

_Snowball._ Hold yer hush, hold yer hush!

_O’Rourke._ Vat’s that, ye heathen? I’d jist like to pound that thick
pate till I had yer spachless——so I would. Begorra, ye’d cry Guilty
then.

_Timorous._ O, come, let’s have peace.

_O’Rourke._ Pace, is it? Ye’ve had a pace of my mind, onyhow.

_Precise._ No quarrelling, gentlemen. The quicker we decide this
case the better. The government has charged one Peter Popgun with an
attempt to defraud the revenue of the manufacturer’s tax on gunpowder.
Its secret agents, suspecting said Popgun, made a descent upon his
establishment, which is a country store, seized certain articles, such
as saltpetre, sulphur, and charcoal, which they found in a certain
little back shop, said articles being, in their opinion, used by said
Popgun in the manufacture of gunpowder. The said Popgun denies the
manufacture of gunpowder, and sets up a defence that the said articles
are used by him in concocting a certain patent medicine, known as the
“Medical Dead Shot.” Evidence has been produced on both sides. We
have been charged to bring in a verdict on the evidence alone. I am
quite convinced, by the testimony, that said Popgun did manufacture
gunpowder, and evade the tax. Still, I should like to hear a free
expression of opinion.

_All_ (_jumping up_). Mr. Foreman.

_Precise._ Stop, stop. One at a time.

_All._ Yes, yes; one at a time, Mr. Foreman.

_Precise._ Stop, stop, I say. We can never settle it in this way.

_Strongfist._ Of course we can’t. Let us six fight the other six. That
will settle it.

_O’Rourke._ True for yez. A fray fight. I’m wid yer. (_About to remove
his coat._)

_Precise._ Silence. There can be no fighting here. You all want to
speak. I will call upon each juror, giving both sides equal advantages
of time and opportunity. Is not that fair?

_All._ Certainly. Of course. Go on. Go on.

_Precise._ Very well. I will first call upon Mr. Timorous.

_Timorous_ (_rising_). Mr. Foreman, and gentlemen of the jury. (_Very
low._) I rise——I may say——yes, I rise——

_O’Rourke._ Louder.

_Strongfist._ Speak up like a man.

_Timorous._ I said——I rise——to say, if I may say——I rise to say——

_O’Rourke._ O, be jabbers, you’re all out to say.

(_The party on the_ L., _with the exception of_ PAUNCH, _rise
indignantly_.) Mr. Foreman, Mr. Foreman!

_Precise_ (_pounds on table_). Silence! Order, gentlemen, order.

_Blower._ Mr. Foreman, this attempt of the party on the right to
intimidate the party on the left is unjust.

_Punster._ Far from being righteous or courteous.

_Snowball._ Am we jurors, or am we not jurors? I ax you?

_Precise._ The interruption shall not occur again. Go on, Mr. Timorous.

_Timorous._ If you please, Mr. Foreman, I only rose to say——that, if I
might be allowed to say it——that——I’ve got nothing to say.

_Party on right._ Shame! Humbug! Put him out!

_Precise._ Order, gentlemen.——Have you no reason to give for your vote
of “Not guilty”?

_Timorous._ O, yes; lots. I voted “Guilty,” no, “Not guilty,”
because——well, because——Popgun don’t look like a man who would concoct
such a sanguinary mixture as powder. He hasn’t the air of a ruffian.
His thoughts don’t run in that explosive channel. I’m something of a
physiognomist.

_Snowball._ Mahogany! What’s dat?

_Timorous._ A physiognomist. I judge by the face——

_Party on right._ O, humbug!

_Blower._ Mr. Foreman, I protest. This attempt to stifle the voice of
Justice is a high-handed crime.

_Snowball._ Yes, sar; it’s bigamy, kleptomania, arson.

_Precise._ Order, gentlemen.——Go on, Mr. Timorous.

_Timorous._ But then I haven’t any particular opinion in the matter;
and if you want me to change——

_Blower._ Silence, traitor!

_Snowball._ Shut up yer tater trap.

_Punster._ Suppose you sit, for a change. (_Pulls him down to seat._)

_Timorous._ Anything to oblige.

_Precise._ Mr. Jolly.

_Jolly_ (_rising_). My turn, hey? Mr. Foreman, and gentlemen of the
jury,——

        To make or not to make, that is the question.
        Whether ’tis better to let Popgun suffer
        The law’s full penalty for mixing powder,
        Or to take arms against this awful tax,
        And by our verdict free him.

Gentlemen, Popgun is a dangerous man. I am for his annihilation. He
is a second Guy Fawkes. Behind his shop are concealed those explosive
materials destined to spread havoc and destruction in an innocent
neighborhood. We might spare him if the possible destruction of a
thousand or two of his immediate neighbors was the only consequence
to be feared. But he’s a sneak; he dodges the tax. That we must not
suffer. The medicine story won’t do; the dose is too heavy; it won’t
stay on the stomach. That gun recoils upon Popgun, who is too heavily
charged by the evidence to be discharged by this jury. (_Sits._)

_Precise._ Order, gentlemen. Mr. Doubtful.

_Snowball._ No, sar, no, sar. I move we lay him onto de table, _sinner
die_.

_O’Rourke._ Die, is it, ye black sinner? Howld yer pate, or you’ll die
jist.

_Doubtful_ (_rising_). Mr. Foreman, and gentlemen of the jury, there’s
one p’int in this evidence I want cleared up.

_O’Rourke._ Is it a pint of whiskey, I donno?

_All._ Order, order.

_O’Rourke._ That’s what I’d like to do, and drink it, too.

_Doubtful._ If that air Popgun made gunpowder, why didn’t somebody see
him do it? Cause a man’s got saltpetre in his house, and sulphur and
charcoal, it doesn’t foller that he’s going to make gunpowder. I’ve got
charcoal in my house——kindle the fire with it; sulphur to bleach with;
saltpetre for curing purposes. But nobody ever said I made gunpowder.
It’s rediculous. Popgun’s got eggs in his store. Why don’t you say he
hatched _them_? (_Sits._)

_Snowball._ Da’s a fac’, da’s a fac’. Second de motion.

_All._ Order, order.

_Precise._ Mr. Strongfist.

_Strongfist._ Well, you’re a pretty set of sneaks over there, you are.

_All._ Order, order.

_Strongfist._ O, I know what I’m about. I’d like to get in among you.
I believe in justice. I believe in any man’s having his say in this
world; but I don’t believe in arguing about a matter that’s as plain as
the nose on your face. The man made gunpowder, and sold it, didn’t pay
the tax, and you fellows over there know it. You’re a set of obstinate
fools; and it’s the duty of all loyal citizens to stand by the
government and punish traitors. The government’s been insulted by this
contemptible Popgun, and you fellows on the left uphold him. Our duty
is clear, to bring you to your senses. (_Takes off coat._) So, come on.
(_Squares off._)

_O’Rourke._ I’m wid yez. Fag a ballah! Erin come unim.

_All._ Order, order.

_Precise._ Gentlemen, peace, I pray. Mr. Strongfist, your argument is
very weak.

_Strongfist._ Is it? Well, my fist is strong; let me try that.

_Precise._ No, sir; you will please be seated. Mr. Paunch.

_Snowball_ (_shaking him_). Here, Mr. Punch, Mr. Punch.

_Paunch._ Hey? O, yes. Mr. Foreman, I’ve got precious little to say.
I’m hungry; I’ve had nothing to eat since morning. I was invited out
to dinner at five o’clock with Alderman Cross. Fine leg of venison and
native tomatoes, sliced, stewed, and broiled. The alderman is a capital
eater, weighs three hundred and fifty, and has the best hogs——

_Precise._ Won’t you confine yourself to the question, Mr. Paunch?

_Paunch._ O, yes. Hogshead of Madeira you ever tasted. It’s capital.
Then his cheeses! Good gracious! they’re mighty——

_Precise._ Mr. Paunch, Mr. Paunch!

_Paunch._ They’re mighty fine. What did you say, sir?

_Precise._ Will you give your reasons for voting “Not guilty”?

_Paunch._ Certainly. Stop. Did I vote “Not guilty”? I don’t remember.
It don’t make any difference. Settle it as you please, only remember I
must dine with Alderman Cross at five. (_Sits and goes to sleep again._)

_Snowball._ Question, question! We’ll all dine with Cross, hey! I ax
you.

_Precise._ Mr. Slow, you next.

_Slow._ Hey? Yes. Well, I don’t know. Popgun did make gunpowder, I
guess, cause he had a little shop. (_Pauses._)

_Precise._ Well, go on, Mr. Slow.

_Slow._ Yes. Well, he had a little shop, Popgun had, and he made
somethin’ in that shop; and if he didn’t make gunpowder, he made
somethin’ in that little shop that he didn’t pay no tax onto. And so
he’s guilty er somethin’ or other in that little shop. So long’s he’s
caught, what’s the odds, as long as you’re happy. (_Sits._)

_Snowball._ Doubted, doubted.

_All._ Order.

_Precise._ Mr. Blower.

_Blower_ (_rises, flourishes his handkerchief, blows his nose,
strikes an attitude_). M-r-r-r-r. Foreman, and gent_ee_lmen of the
jury, it is with spontaneous emotion that I rise to address you. You,
genteelmen, with me, have looked upon a touching scene to-day. We have
seen an enlightened citizen of this great republic, which, like the
light of yonder firmament, attracts the attention of the whole world.
We have seen him dragged from the bosom of his family and placed at
the bar, at the bar, gentlemen, there to answer to grave and serious
charges. It is evident that in the mysterious depths of that little
back shop something has been concocted. The government says “Powder;”
the defendant says “Shot.” Powder and shot! “Powder” _or_ “shot,”
in this case. One possesses the power to blow the human frame into
infinitesimal particles; the other cures all ills that flesh is heir
to. Can we pause and deliberate? Look at that man, dragged from the
bosom of his family; his wife and children——

_Jolly._ Beg your pardon, Blower. Popgun is single.

_Blower._ Hey? Dragged from the paternal mansion. Hear the cry of
the agonized and aged mother of the prisoner, as she stands upon the
doorstep and screams, “My child! Bring back my little Popgun!”

_Jolly._ Wrong again, Blower. He’s neither father nor mother.

_Blower._ Hey! Poor orphan! without a friend in the world! Can we turn
our backs upon him? No. Let us be merciful. Let us indorse his patent
medicine, and carry from this room a verdict of Not guilty. Then shall
the tears of the orphan be squelched in gratitude, and the blessings of
future generations of Popguns follow us.

_O’Rourke._ Begorra, that’s a teching appeal.

_Precise._ Now, Mr. O’Rourke, your turn.

_O’Rourke_ (_rising_). I ax yer pardon, judge, Mr. Foreman, and
gintlemen all. Wid the blood of forty ginerations of O’Rourkes a
seethin’ with patriotic emotion in me bosom, d’ye mind; with faylings
of gratitude for the fray gifts of life, liberty, and the pursuit of
happiness, guaranteed by this moighty republic, which, as I look back
into the future, is iver prisint in all its glory, d’ye mind. Could
I be so base as to dash myself foreninst those illigant laws that
crush the wake and guard the strong? By the grane sod of ould Ireland,
niver! If that thaif of the wurld, Popgun, has transgressed the law,
let him swing. And what for would he be mixing saltpatre and——and——and
brimstone, and——and charcoal, if not to blow up somebody. Medicine, is
it? It’s my opinion that we’d better bring in a verdict of Guilty, and
hang him, wid a recommendation to mercy, provided forty doses of his
Medical Dead Shot bring him to life afther he’s been dead and buried
siven days. Thim’s my verdict, judge. (_Sits._)

_Jolly._ That’s a reviving verdict.

_Precise._ Mr. Punster.

_Punster_ (_rising_). Mr. Foreman, and gentlemen of the jury, the
party popularly known in this suit as Popgun is a small affair, but I
do not wonder that he kicks against this attempt of the government to
charge him with powder he never made. How would you like it yourselves,
gentlemen? Imagine yourselves Popguns, and happy in the disposing of
butter, cheese, and——and hairpins to a needy community. Upon a luckless
occasion, you sell ten cents’ worth of powder to a red-headed urchin
on the eve of our glorious independence. The awful crime is repeated;
and, by the power of government, you innocent Popguns are incarcerated
on a grave charge. You hear nothing but powder; you are loaded with
reproaches and powder; it is rammed down your throats, until, like
Popgun, you burst with indignation. Have we not heard from the lips
of competent witnesses the amazing power of his Dead Shot? An old
man had suffered forty years with influenza; the Dead Shot stopped
it forever. An old lady, bent double with the rheumatism, was made
straight by its power. A young mother, whose tender infant had wailed
night after night, was loud in its praises. Gentlemen, this suit comes
from the malice and jealousy of an envious rival. Gentlemen, this is a
conspiracy. Let us clear Popgun of the charges under which he labors,
by applying the match of justice to his overloaded soul. Then will he
go off triumphantly, scattering destruction among his enemies, and give
a good report of our deliberations. (_Sits._)

_Snowball_ (_jumping up_). See here, white folks, what’s de use? what’s
de use?

_Precise._ Mr. Snowball, you’re out of order.

_All._ Go on, Snowball. Fire away.

_Snowball._ Mr. Foreman and gemblem. Of course it am. Why not? And,
if not, wherefore? I ax you. If de blessed Constitution of dese ere
United States ob America don’t permit the humblest of her sex to choose
de proper medicines for dar physical systerns, wedder it be gunpowder
or gunpowder tea, what’s de use ob bein’ citizens and citizenesses
of dese here republic? I ax you. Who’s Popgun? Am he, or am he not,
a phusician? I ax you. I don’t care what his moral perquisites be,
wedder he vote de demicratic or de bobolition. Does he cure de squills
which air am flesh to? I ax you. When dat ar old man, which my white
brudder alluded to, had de influendways, did he stop his sneezin? I
ax you. When dat ar old woman hobble to him wid de rheumatics, did
he straighten her out? I ax you. When dat ar baby squaked in its
slumbers of midnight, did Popgun’s Dead Shot fix it? I ax you. If so,
and you find it so,——and I ax you to find it so,——you are forced to
acquit Popgun as a medical dedical sturgen and phusician——ob course
you am; for don’ de stolid phalanx of justice circumbend every man
on Columbia’s footstool, wedder black or white, male or female? and
de aurora borealistic splendors of eternal vigilance abide in de
scrutinized recesses of de enlightened jury-room? I ax you.

_O’Rourke._ Begorra! send for an interpreter.

_Precise._ Mr. Short.

_Short_ (_comes down to table_). It’s my opinion, gentlemen, there’s
been a great deal of time and gas wasted in our deliberations. I’ve got
very few words to say on this subject. Popgun manufactured an article
which the government said was gunpowder. Popgun denies it. That is the
question for us to decide. We were shown in the court-room a sample
of this disputed article. It looked like gunpowder; it smelt like
gunpowder; it felt like gunpowder. I took away the box. Here it is.
(_Produces box._) Some of you think it is not gunpowder. I propose to
give it a practical test. (_Places box on table, takes off cover, takes
a match out of his pocket._)

_Timorous._ What! You’re not going to fire it off!

_Short._ Don’t be alarmed. There’s only a pound or two. It can’t do
much damage.

_Strongfist._ You’ll blow us all up!

_Jolly._ The man’s crazy.

_O’Rourke._ Begorra, there! Aisy wid yer pranks.

_All._ Stop him! Stop him!

_Short._ Here she goes. (_Draws match across table._)

_All._ Help! Murder! Officer! Put him out, &c. (TIMOROUS _crawls under
table_; SNOWBALL _jumps up into chair and makes frantic attempts to
crawl up the wall_; DOUBTFUL _runs into corner, pulls_ PAUNCH _up
to cover him_; BLOWER _gets down and covers himself with a chair_;
PRECISE _stops his ears, and crouches in a corner_; STRONGFIST _and_
PUNSTER _seize_ SHORT, _one on each side_; O’ROURKE _seizes_ SHORT _by
coat-tail behind_; JOLLY _and_ SLOW _try to get behind each other_.)

_Precise._ Would you murder us?

_Strongfist._ Blow us to pieces?

_O’Rourke._ Call in the judge.

_Short._ Let me go, I tell you. (_Kicks_ O’ROURKE, _strikes_ PRECISE
_and_ STRONGFIST, _and sends them to the floor_.)

_O’Rourke._ I’m kilt intirely.

_All._ Help! Murder! Help!

_Short_ (_holding the match_). Now, gentlemen of the jury, here is a
convincing test. Shall I apply it, or are you ready with a verdict?

_All._ No. Yes. Verdict. Verdict.

_Short._ Gentlemen, what is your verdict, guilty or not guilty?

_All._ Guilty.

_Short._ All right. Mr. Foreman, make out your papers. (_Blows out
match. All resume seats._)

_Timorous._ Well, I never had such a scare in all my life.

_O’Rourke._ By me soul! I say a wake a comin’ for the last of the
O’Rourkes.

_Snowball._ By golly, I’m all ob a hot chill in my backbone.

_Precise_ (_who has been writing_). Gentlemen, listen to your verdict.
“We find the defendant, Peleg Popgun, guilty.”

_Jolly._ “So say we, all of us.”

_All._ Ay. Ay.

_Short._ Then there’s no further use for this box of sawdust, I suppose.

_All._ Sawdust?

_Short._ Exactly. You thought ’twas gunpowder. No matter. I _saw_
I could throw _dust_ in your eyes with it. I can’t say much for
your argument. You’re like all the rest of this universal Yankee
nation——anxious to fasten your tongue tackle on to every question.
There’s a very plain case here, which might have been a very knotty one
but for the sawdust, which has brought you to terms, and thus proved a
better medicine than Popgun’s celebrated Dead Shot.


                                CURTAIN.




                     PLAYS FOR AMATEUR THEATRICALS.

                          BY GEORGE M. BAKER.

_Author of “Amateur Dramas,” “The Mimic Stage” “The Social Stage,” &c._


  _DRAMAS._                _In Three Acts._

    MY BROTHER’S KEEPER. 5 male, 3 female characters. 15c.


                            _In Two Acts._

    AMONG THE BREAKERS. 6 male, 4 female characters. 15c.
    SYLVIA’S SOLDIER. 3 male, 2 female characters. 15c.
    ONCE ON A TIME. 4 male, 2 female characters. 15c.
    DOWN BY THE SEA. 6 male, 3 female characters. 15c.
    BREAD ON THE WATERS. 5 male, 3 female characters. 15c.
    [1]THE LAST LOAF. 5 male, 3 female characters. 15c.


                             _In One Act._

    STAND BY THE FLAG. 5 male characters. 15c.
    [1]THE TEMPTER. 3 male, 1 female character. 15c.


  _COMEDIES AND FARCES._

    THE BOSTON DIP. 4 male, 3 female characters. 15c.
    THE DUCHESS OF DUBLIN. 6 male, 4 female characters. 15c.
    [1]WE’RE ALL TEETOTALLERS. 4 male, 2 female characters. 15c.
    [1]A DROP TOO MUCH. 4 male, 2 female characters. 15c.
    THIRTY MINUTES FOR REFRESHMENTS. 4 male, 3 female characters. 15c.
    [1]A LITTLE MORE CIDER. 5 male, 3 female characters. 15c.


                        _Male Characters Only._

    GENTLEMEN OF THE JURY. 12 characters. 15c.
    A TENDER ATTACHMENT. 7 characters. 15c.
    THE THIEF OF TIME. 6 characters. 15c.
    THE HYPOCHONDRIAC. 5 characters. 15c.
    A PUBLIC BENEFACTOR. 6 characters. 15c.
    THE RUNAWAYS. 4 characters. 15c.
    COALS OF FIRE. 6 characters. 15c.
    WANTED, A MALE COOK. 4 characters. 15c.
    A SEA OF TROUBLES. 8 characters. 15c.
    FREEDOM OF THE PRESS. 8 characters. 15c.
    A CLOSE SHAVE. 6 characters. 15c.
    THE GREAT ELIXIR. 9 characters. 15c.
    [1]THE MAN WITH THE DEMIJOHN. 4 characters. 15c.
    HUMORS OF THE STRIKE. 8 characters. 15c.
    NEW BROOMS SWEEP CLEAN. 6 characters. 15c.
    MY UNCLE THE CAPTAIN. 6 characters. 15c.

      [1] Temperance pieces.


                       _Female Characters Only._

    THE RED CHIGNON. 6 characters. 15c.
    USING THE WEED. 7 characters. 15c.
    A LOVE OF A BONNET. 5 characters. 15c.
    A PRECIOUS PICKLE. 6 characters. 15c.
    THE GREATEST PLAGUE IN LIFE. 8 characters. 15c.
    NO CURE NO PAY. 7 characters. 15c.
    THE GRECIAN BEND. 7 characters. 15c.


  _ALLEGORIES.    Arranged for Music and Tableaux._

    THE REVOLT OF THE BEES. 9 female characters. 15c.
    LIGHTHEART’S PILGRIMAGE. 8 female characters. 15c.
    THE WAR OF THE ROSES. 8 female characters. 15c.
    THE SCULPTOR’S TRIUMPH. 1 male. 4 female characters. 15c.


  _MUSICAL and Dramatic Entertainments._

    THE SEVEN AGES. A Tableau Entertainment. Numerous male and female
      characters. 15c.
    TOO LATE FOR THE TRAIN. 2 male characters. 15c.
    SNOW-BOUND; OR, ALONZO THE BRAVE AND THE FAIR IMOGENE. 3 male, 1
      female character. 25c.
    BONBONS; OR, THE PAINT-KING. 3 male, 1 female character. 25c.
    THE PEDLER OF VERY NICE. 7 male characters. 15c.
    AN ORIGINAL IDEA. 1 male, 1 female character. 15c.
    CAPULETTA; OR, ROMEO AND JULIET RESTORED. 3 male, 1 female
      character. 15c.




                       SPENCER’S UNIVERSAL STAGE.


 36. =Diamond cut Diamond.= An Interlude in One Act. By W. H. Murray. 10
    Male, 1 Female character.

 37. =Look after Brown.= A Farce in One Act. By George A. Stuart, M. D.
    6 Male, 1 Female character.

 38. =Monseigneur.= A Drama in Three Acts, By Thomas Archer. 15 Male, 3
    Female characters.

 39. =A very pleasant Evening.= A Farce in One Act. By W. E. Suter. 3
    Male characters.

 40. =Brother Ben.= A Farce in One Act. By J. M. Morton. 3 Male, 3
    Female characters.

 41. =Only a Clod.= A Comic Drama in One Act. By J. P. Simpson. 4 Male,
    1 Female character.

 42. =Gaspardo the Gondolier.= A Drama in Three Acts. By George Almar.
    10 Male, 2 Female characters.

 43. =Sunshine through the Clouds.= A Drama in One Act. By Slingsby
    Lawrence. 3 Male, 3 Female characters.

 44. =Don’t Judge by Appearances.= A Farce in One Act. By J. M. Morton.
    3 Male, 2 Female characters.

 45. =Nursey Chickweed.= A Farce in One Act. By T. J. Williams. 4 Male,
    2 Female characters.

 46. =Mary Moo; or, Which shall I Marry? A Farce in One Act.= By W. E.
    Suter. 2 Male, 1 Female character.

 47. =East Lynne.= A Drama in Five Acts. 8 Male, 7 Female characters.

 48. =The Hidden Hand.= A Drama in Five Acts. By Robert Jones. 16 Male,
    7 Female characters.

 49. =Silverstone’s Wager.= A Commedietta in One Act. By R. R. Andrews.
    4 Male, 3 Female characters.

 50. =Dora.= A Pastoral Drama in Three Acts. By Charles Reade. 5 Male, 2
    Female characters.

 51. =Blanks and Prizes.= A Farce in One Act. By Dexter Smith. 5 Male, 2
    Female characters.

 52. =Old Gooseberry.= A Farce in One Act. By T. J. Williams. 4 Male, 2
    Female characters.

 53. =Who’s Who.= A Farce in One Act. By T. J. Williams. 3 Male, 2
    Female characters.

 54. =Bouquet.= A Farce in One Act. 2 Male, 3 Female characters.

 55. =The Wife’s Secret.= A Play in Five Acts. By George W. Lovell. 10
    Male, 2 Female characters.

 56. =The Babes in the Wood.= A Comedy in Three Acts. By Tom Taylor. 10
    Male, 3 Female characters.

 57. =Putkins: Heir to Castles in the Air.= A Comic Drama in One Act. By
    W. R. Emerson. 2 Male, 2 Female characters.

 58. =An Ugly Customer.= A Farce in One Act. By Thomas J. Williams. 3
    Male, 2 Female characters.

 59. =Blue and Cherry.= A Comedy in One Act. 3 Male, 2 Female
    characters.

 60. =A Doubtful Victory.= A Comedy in One Act. 3 Male, 2 Female
    characters.

 61. =The Scarlet Letter.= A Drama in Three Acts. 8 Male, 7 Female
    characters.

 62. =Which will have Him? A Vaudeville.= 1 Male, 2 Female characters.

 63. =Madam is Abed.= A Vaudeville in One Act. 2 Male, 2 Female
    characters.

 64. =The Anonymous Kiss.= A Vaudeville. 2 Male, 2 Female characters.

 65. =The Cleft Stick.= A Comedy in Three Acts. 5 Male, 3 Female
    characters.

 66. =A Soldier, a Sailor, a Tinker, and a Tailor.= A Farce in One Act.
    4 Male, 2 Female characters.

 67. =Give a Dog a Bad Name.= A Farce. 2 Male, 2 Female Characters.

 68. =Damon and Pythias.= A Farce. 6 Male, 4 Female characters.

 69. =A Husband to Order.= A Serio-Comic Drama in Two Acts. 5 Male, 3
    Female characters.

 70. =Payable on Demand.= A Domestic Drama in Two Acts. 7 Male, 1 Female
    character.


                        _Price, 15 cents each.
         Descriptive Catalogue mailed free on application to_

                               GEO. M. BAKER & CO.,
                                     149 WASHINGTON ST., BOSTON.




                    Plays for Amateur Theatricals.

                          By GEORGE M. BAKER.

  _Author of “Amateur Dramas,” “The Mimic Stage,” “The Social Stage,”
           “The Drawing-room Stage,” “A Baker’s Dozen,” &c._

                 =Titles in this Type are New Plays.=


                                DRAMAS.


                           _In Three Acts._                      _Cts._

  =My Brother’s Keeper.= 5 male, 3 female characters.              15


                            _In Two Acts._

  =Among the Breakers.= 6 male, 4 female characters.               15

  SYLVIA’S SOLDIER. 3 male, 2 female characters.                   15

  ONCE ON A TIME. 4 male, 2 female characters.                     15

  DOWN BY THE SEA. 6 male, 3 female characters.                    15

  BREAD ON THE WATERS. 5 male, 3 female characters.                15

  THE LAST LOAF. 5 male, 3 female characters.                      15


                             _In One Act._

  STAND BY THE FLAG. 5 male characters.                            15

  THE TEMPTER. 3 male, 1 female charac.                            15


                         COMEDIES and FARCES.

  =The Boston Dip.= 4 male, 3 female characters.                   15

  =The Duchess of Dublin.= 6 male, 4 female characters.            15

  WE’RE ALL TEETOTALERS. 4 male, 2 female characters.              15

  A DROP TOO MUCH. 4 male, 2 female characters.                    15

  THIRTY MINUTES FOR REFRESHMENTS. 4 male, 3 female characters.    15

  A LITTLE MORE CIDER. 5 male, 3 female characters.                15


                        _Male Characters Only._

  =Gentlemen of the Jury.= 12 char.                                15

  =A Tender Attachment.= 7 char.                                   15

  =The Thief of Time.= 6 char.                                     15

  =The Hypochondriac.= 5 char.                                     15

  =A Public Benefactor.= 6 char.                                   15

  =The Runaways.= 4 char.                                          15

  =Coals of Fire.= 6 char.                                         15

  WANTED, A MALE COOK. 4 char.                                     15

  A SEA OF TROUBLES. 8 char.                                       15


                                FARCES.

  FREEDOM OF THE PRESS. 8 char.                                    15

  A CLOSE SHAVE. 6 char.                                           15

  THE GREAT ELIXIR. 9 char.                                        15

  THE MAN WITH THE DEMIJOHN. 4 char.                               15

  HUMORS OF THE STRIKE. 8 char.                                    15

  NEW BROOMS SWEEP CLEAN. 6 char.                                  15

  MY UNCLE THE CAPTAIN. 6 char.                                    15


                       _Female Characters Only._

  =The Red Chignon.= 6 char.                                       15

  =Using the Weed.= 7 char.                                        15

  =A Love of a Bonnet.= 5 char.                                    15

  =A Precious Pickle.= 6 char.                                     15

  THE GREATEST PLAGUE IN LIFE. 8 cha.                              15

  NO CURE, NO PAY. 7 char.                                         15

  THE GRECIAN BEND. 7 char.                                        15


                              ALLEGORIES.

                  _Arranged for Music and Tableaux._

  =The Revolt of the Bees.= 9 female characters.                   15

  LIGHTHEART’S PILGRIMAGE. 8 female characters.                    15

  THE WAR OF THE ROSES. 8 female characters.                       15

  THE SCULPTOR’S TRIUMPH. 1 male, 4 female characters.             15


                         MUSICAL AND DRAMATIC.

  =The Seven Ages.= A Tableau Entertainment. Numerous male and
    female characters.                                             15

  TOO LATE FOR THE TRAIN. 2 male characters.                       15

  SNOW BOUND: OR, ALONZO THE BRAVE AND THE FAIR IMOGENE. 3 male,
    1 female character.                                            25

  BONBONS: OR, THE PAINT-KING. 3 male, 1 female character.         25

  THE PEDLER OF VERY NICE. 7 male characters.                      15

  AN ORIGINAL IDEA. 1 male, 1 female character.                    15

  CAPULETTA: OR, ROMEO AND JULIET RESTORED. 3 male, 1 female
    character.                                                     15


                         _TEMPERANCE PIECES._

      THE LAST LOAF. 5 male, 3 female characters.            15
      THE TEMPTER. 3 male, 1 female character.               15
      WE’RE ALL TEETOTALERS. 4 male, 2 female characters.    15
      A DROP TOO MUCH. 4 male, 2 female characters.          15
      A LITTLE MORE CIDER. 5 male, 3 female characters.      15
      THE MAN WITH THE DEMIJOHN. 4 characters.               15




                          Transcriber’s Notes


Small caps have been converted to ALL CAPS.


Some typographical errors have been corrected:

  Printed       Correction     Extract
  ——————————————————————————————————————————————
  Out,          Out.           28. Bowled Out. A Farce in One
  protest this  protest. This  I protest. This attempt to stifle
  Baker s       Baker’s        “A Baker’s Dozen,” &c.
  characters    characters.    Waters. 5 male, 3 female characters.





End of Project Gutenberg's Gentlemen of the Jury, by George M. Baker

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK GENTLEMEN OF THE JURY ***

***** This file should be named 48707-0.txt or 48707-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/4/8/7/0/48707/

Produced by David Edwards, Donalies and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This
file was produced from images generously made available
by The Internet Archive)

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

